Pillars of algorithm 

1. input - data dataset, or problem set 
2. output - result or response
3. finiteness - fix  numbers of steps or fix amount of time 
   if it does not follow the finiteness then it is not an algorithm
4. definiteness -  eveyr step in algorithm should be clearly defined so that one can code it 
5. effectiveness - every step should solve the problem or should take you closer to the solution, else should not exist.

Analysis - 
why analysis ? - so one can predict time and space complexity and then select the one 
100 options - 10 test - 1select -this is the process of analysis.
when to analysis? 
      Priori - prediction by human , its a plane prediction pen and paper
      Posteriori - checks whether the prediction is right, wrong, or how much difference it makes, example- testing.

      priori analysis is done by human kind of like a prediciton done by human on pen and paper but posteriori is check whether the predicition is right and do exactly what we expected.

analysis on what ? 
      Best case - best case has minimum or no work
      Worst case - for a problem size of n, in multiple of n there will be work, let's say 2n, n square, or n factorial.
      Average case - nearly half of the problem size would be the work.

To predict how good an algorithm is, we should know the maximum run time. That is the worst case. hence the worst case is always used.

interview asks - for the most accurate answer we combine the Average of (best and worst)


in above pillars input and output are most important 











time cmplexity = time to execute 

todays in industry time complexity is more important than space complexity 

how do we calculate time complexity? 

      comments has 0 
      Operations has 1
      loop has n+k

      i=0 runs for single 1 time.
      for n =3 loop will run for five times  - 0 ,1 ,2 ,3 ,4and cancel so 5 times 
      i++ = runs for n+1 times (3+1) 0,1,2,3,4 

      to find the time complexity  - add all the times  - 

      time complexity ( time in steps )  -   3n + 5 - it is time or timecomplexity we have given in steps 


      how would you give speed when processors are different ?


Interview question in mcq -  - -


complexities  -   linear - n, (if complexity is n )
                  Quadratic - n^2,
                  Cubic - n^, 
                  
                   1000000 - 0.5 125000000 - 0.5*125

                  log based - log n, 

                        log100 - 2
                        log500 -2.69
                        (2.69*0.5)2 = 0.67 

Asymptotic notation - it is a unit to record complexity 

asymptotic notation is used to describe the running time of an algorithm - how much time an algorithm takes with a given input, n.

Way to recording complexity using mathematical formula. it is a unit to record complexity 

Big-O - targets only worst case complexity.. extremly simple. fast but less efficent compared to theta.

theta - targets average of best and worst case , hence slow to record but more efficient compared to big O Omega. 

Omega - targets only the best case. most of the algorithm behaves similary  in best case hence it is not very much used.


use the question given in the pdf - very much asked 


f(n) - input rate /amount of input 

g(n) - growth rate / number of operations done for completing the task .

Big-Oh - 

      i/p input            n^3(steps)
      1                       1
      2                       8
      3                       27

      Here if even 1 input increses the number of steps increases very much  

f(n) < c.g(n)      
Theta - c1.g(n)   <= f(n) <=    c2.g(n)
        best case              worst case 


interview question - can u explain best case with example ?
 
 if u have 1,2,3........100(searching(1))  - 
 if u have 1,2,3........1000(seracing(1)) - 




 Big-O - 

 rules - 
  constant has no value - O(100n ) -> O(n)
  In addition use 


  Because of Big O is +ve thing is it is simple
                      -ve thing is it LESSER efficient  





Algorithm for searching and sorting 

first we sort and then we search 

all searching algorithm returns an index if data is found unless returns -1

define process of sorting 
      process of arranging data in order.
      by default it is in ascending order if asked explicitilty then you apply descending unless it keep itself in ascending by default


interviews print in minimum lines 
so we have an Array module which is built in we can use it like this  : 

System.out.println("Initially" + Arrays.toString(a)); //print using minimum line 



Bubble sort -

it is the most basic sorting technique when immediate neighbors are compared and heaviest element bubbled up on top.

bubbled means swap 
how many passes it would required - n-1, last one left will be sorted itself.

i gives passes , j does sorting






Selection sort - 
in selection in  every ith pass, the smallest is selected and placed at first location .

reference and to be a part of data.
if the reference is not part of your data , you take reference from your data only 


selection is generally asked on paper pen 

one small point - why so many sorting techniques -
different people use different techniques to solve different problems.

bubble comparison sort and selection sort -

bubble sort compars neighbor elements while selection searches minimum element;
bubble sort has less number of passes than selection sort 


insertion_sort


Quick_sort

In this we take a pivot as a reference. Element less than the pivot should be to the left (before). Element greater than the pivot should be to the right(after). Pivot can be the first, the last, or a mid element.

pivot - refernce 
it is such a element it can be start to end , end to start or in mid .

and in order to balance pivot we sort the array .

less elements <- pivot greater elements 


merge sort is mostly asked in every interview.

it works on a complecated technique of devide and conquerr.

















deploma- be- me- msc- phd 