How you should use chatgpt ?
      You should never directly use chatgpt or AI 

      rather than going blind and asking for solution from ai use ai 
                        
                        -to explain what question is asking .
                        -help in logic making for the solution (adding on to your thinking)
                        -and if stuck can help for guide 
                        instead of an answer. use it to guide you to solve it.
            


Preparation for interview -

      1. core ready - strong java lnguage.
      2. Data Structure - 
                              1 structure at a time 
                                                n problems
      3. algorithm and pattern -    
                              greedy + dynamic 
      100 Hrs



      for cracking an interview first round you need to at least give 100 hr to this study at this point under 3 months 

      round 1 online coding test (63% companies take coding round 1 ) - needs strong handson of problem solving and logics 

      most of the companies has a custom IDE that does not give reflection, no multiple tabs , no AI.

      So you need to learn coding syntax and functions.


      
      what would you answer about the gap.

      what your profile should consist 
      
      certificates
      hackathon certificates  
      max leetcodes , badges , 
      Number of Capstone Projects with AI Touch. 
      Automation based projects ( auto mated scrips ) 
      workflow automation ( example : someone used a machine learning to knwo whats wrong with the car ,  )
      /current industry solutions 
      projects on - Account
                  - Auto Management 
                  - Automation 
                  - API call 
                  - fast API
                  - API Integration 


      do not wait apply through linkedin , direct messages 

      if you are from no it then do more projects , unique projects , more codes , more knowledge than IT students 

      maintain GIT - GIT is now your new passport , companies go through git first thing and gives high priority 
      'github should include thing you really have known and worked on- questions are asked from git'

      Justify Gap it is very import 
      why gap?
      what you did after gap?
      can you prove the gap , documentation ,
      dont say something you can not prove.

      best option - I was upgrading myself .

      Important answer why in CDAC ?
      - 

      an interview is a process of selling yourself within 20 mins.

      when you answer be polite. your bodylanguage tells what you think. attitude is the first and most important thing.

      GD 
      apptitude
      coding
      Profile 
      Github, 
      Projests with AI , Automation, 
      Attitude.
      





