Doubly link implementationof tree 

Newer java does nulify itself 
In older java we needed left = right = null;

opposit of > is <= and < is >=


inorder should be in order 
-------------------------------------------------
AVL - developed by three people 


AVL 


Balance Factor 
height of left - height of right 

Allowed balance factor is between +1,0,-1

Balance is important  - because if a tree is balance it take lesser time and if unbalanced takes more time .

If a tree is balanced it is a shallow tree  - less depth 
AVL is variation of BST 
. . . . . . . .
. . . . . 
. . . . . 

 
single rotation 

Double rotation
      will be rotating and comming in between


load come from any side (new inserts are load comming in tree so you rotate it to balance tree)
depending on


--------------------------
Huffman tree

works in concept of ndoes and tree 

JPG - BMP
Winzip winrar.
what is huffman coding tree
how it achives compression 


-----------------


Expression tree
it is a specialized version
used to convert prefix to postfix directly 

ALU unit uses express tree to solve maths 


---------------------

B Tree.
it is an example of a multi way search tree 

it's base is BST but enhanced and works on a larger picture 

M is order, it is odd because we split it 

what is an advantage of btree over normal tree




B+ tree is advanced form of b tree 

2| is index 
all nodes are interlinked 
B+ is used in indexing of vedios.

used in bluray for indexing for restricting clips , uses indexing to skip .


Graph

tree is a subset of graph
so every tree is actually a graph 
every graph without a cycle is a tree 
graph gives direct access while tree gives directed access 

a graph is represented with G =(V,E)
V(G) -
E(G) - 
Symmetric  asymmetric
undirected directed 
weighted unweighted 

one of the most uses is weighted and directed for interviews 

Weight - it is a unit.

examle of asymmetric relationship :
download and upload speed differance(unbalance)





----------------------------------------
Graph Searcging 
traversal 
its Blind search , blind searching means  multiple solutions possible.

which of the following is wrong bsf or dsf ?

DSF - it is a vertical search which exlore only one branch , if there is dead end we will backtrack and explore again any one branch going forward.
BSF- it is a horizontal search , explore first direct neighbers if no solution found will search neighbers of neighbers.

Bsf algorithm used by ola uber, swiggy. - first direct neighbers is searched if not found searching increases to neighbers of neighbers

there  is no root in bsf or dsf 


Algorithm 

start by putting source on to queue and Mark it visited.

search for all ( all V\S anyone (BSF talks about any one) ) unvisited neighbers of element at quqeue front, mark them visited and put them on queue 

mark for visited - in real code we do 




Favourite of interviewers  - ----- 

if graph asked DFS will be asked 90% and with on paper 

DFS 
1.
accept source, mark it visited and push it on stack 
visited[source] = 1; marked visited just after it print 
2.
if neighbours then - (g[source][i] == 1). and it should be unvisited  && visite[i]
3.

In interview attitude / confidance matters smile with confidance  , 

If you could explain dsf - 
1.u understand loops;
2. u understand recursion 
3. you understand complex programming 



in 90% of graph problems 2d array is used 




reset visited when going to bfs











